                                                         TECHNOLOGIES IN MORDERN DAYS
	
	
Technology is a science or knowledge put into practical use to solve problems. Screen media are increasingly common in young children's life.
It is therefore essential to understand the impact of specific technologies such as tablets,e-books for literacy and the best ways to include 
these technologies in children's routine at home or in the classroom.Reading books with children is  recognized  as one of the most important 
contexts for language and literacy learning in early childhood.Literacy learning has been transformed by digital media that comes in the form
of text,graphics,audio and video integrated into entertaining apps that can be delivered to children anywhere on mobile devices.Popular advice
to parents is conflicting, ranging from enthusiastic support of educational apps to dire warnings of potential harm.

Not all “educational” apps are beneficial. The best apps integrate multimedia features in a way that is congruent with story or learning goal.Too
many bells and whistles in an app can be distracting and interfere with learning. A good quality app will present content in a meaningful context 
that actively engage the child and allows for creative exploration rather than mere rote-learning. children are growing up in a world where they 
are now described as ‘digital natives’.With that in mind,we see technology as an enabler to help them in a world that is moving at an increasingly
fast pace.“On the other hand,there exists a powerful ideology that technology and associated innovations are necessarily beneficent,and an equally
powerful private, profits-driven ICT industry that has a vested interest in ‘colonising’ early childhood education. When private profit is the main
motivator, the great danger, of course, is that pedagogical and developmental appropriateness is the very first casualty –and responsible educators
must never allow that to happen.”One of the most important things everybody has to deal with is to overcome the short-termism, which prevails in 
governments, companies and individuals. Additionally we know, that decisions one individual takes are not necessarily good for the society as a
whole.This doesn’t make it easier.Technology shapes the future and it can help to make it compatible with nature.It can help us to develop energy.


Transport possibilities with less emissions and low-energy houses to save resources.Technology is not only about technology itself or more efficiency
and discovering new methods and processes; we have to add the component of art which is about to make wise choices for the future of technology. We
should not develop technology because of itself, but to develop it, because it adds value to society and simplifies human life. 

For this,it needs to be discussed and we have to relate the technology to the organization and the culture in which it should operate.Remember the days
of the West?The women walked around with their parasols or rode in a horse drawn carriage and the men rode fast and furious on their horses.Everything
you needed was right there in town: the saloon,the general store,and the barber. When one needed to get somewhere,they would walk.If they need to travel 
far, there were steam-powered locomotives.As towns and cities grew larger,it was not so convenient to walk everywhere.There was a need for a machine that
could get us around to where we had to go.Technology was becoming a bigger part and the machine we now know today as the automobile was invented.We are in
a world where technology is a crucial need of humanity.We are so used to today’s technology that we employ its sources in our day to day life.It is evident
from the fact that we are dependent on computers for everything we do and it has made our lives,easier and comfortable.This technology is the greatest boon 
to our society and one of the major industries in this regard is Information Technology.


Information Technology has two subsets, namely IT services and BPO (business process outsourcing). This sector has been a major contributor to the growth of
the economy of our country. It is evident in the fact that the contribution of this sector to India’s GDP has grown from 1.2% in 1998 to 7.5% in 2012. This
industry has emerged as an asset to Indian econ omy, in recent years. With the advancement in technology, this industry has made itself compatible, with to
newest innovations.In late 90’s,this industry was not very common in India, but with the increase in technology and innovation in India and owing the fact
that it was supported by global factors, this industry has boomed. India has become one of the major IT jobs capitals of the world generating 2.5 million 
jobs.The youngsters are attracted to this industry because it has a bright future and offers high perks. Moreover, cities like Bangalore, Chennai, Kolkata,
Mumbai etc. have emerged as the major IT capitals in India. Bangalore,the silicon valley of India is the major exporter of the IT services in India Different
IT parks have emerged in India and it is still growing, at a high rate.When it comes to employment,Freshers who have completed their engineering are employed 
in this sector.The industry is growing faster than any other industry in India and it sustains the potential to make this country, a global IT superpower.
If we look at the future aspect of this industry, we can be sure that the IT boom is not going to subside any time soon. Today, India has a booming IT sector, 
with millions of qualified engineers,to fuel its growing needs.IT has spread its root from Bangalore to other cities of India and is connecting India with the
world.India always has an advantage of dedicated workforce, who can interact in English.This provides them an advantage over China, but China is also taking 
measures, to reduce this void.India is quite weak at initiating product development.However, the situation will change in coming years. Innovation is the key
to development in this field. As research and development go hand in hand, it is very important for India to improve skills and research, which will provide a 
further impetus to the IT sector.


Future students will learn easily and quickly because of modern technologies for education which are being developed for the future. The main goal is to create
an educational environment which encourages students to read more and learn from anywhere in the world. So these future technologies are being created in mind 
that they have to be user friendly and also affordable to any student or any school.Teachers will use these future educational technologies to tailor lessons 
basing on students interests. Forget about the classroom where you’re taught what you do not like, in the future, students will learn only what they like most 
and this will boost innovation amongst students and teachers.Educational leaders and ministries have to notice that the rules and curriculum of education will 
change in the future, so they have to be ready for these changes and they have to create an infrastructure which will accommodate these changes in education. 
For example, the introduction of E-Mobile learning has and will make education more mobile. Mobile phones are portable and now days we have smart phones which 
can access internet and they also have big storage hardware which can be used to store electronic books and notes for students. So long distance learners can 
easily use their smart mobile phones to attend a lesson in Harvard University or any other academic institution; they can also use the same device to download
course units and books for further reading about a specific subject.Lets look at another technological tool which can shape education in the future, ”INTERNET”
The internet has proved strong in changing many industries,it has re-shaped the music industry,changed the way we connect it has changed journalism, re-shaped
the retail industry.Now it will also change the way we learn in the feature. Already we have started using internet in long distance learning, who knows what 
else internet will do in re-shaping the education world.


(1) Foldable Tablets: Many tablets have popped up on the market and are all being used by teachers and students for easily learning and teaching. In the future
                      students and teachers will use Foldable Tablet Pc’s , these tablets can fold in many different directions. It has a flexible screen which
                      makes learning and presentation in class so simple and interesting. This tablet can fold over the side and it displays content and images 
                      clearly.
(2) Digitized Classrooms: The future classroom will be digitized;teachers and students will use less or no paper and chalk.In a future digitized classroom,each 
                          student will have a personalized computer and all lessons will be conducted with educational tools displayed on the electronic
                          interactive board and also displayed on student’s computers. This will make learning interesting and personalized, because if the 
                          classroom is too big, students will have no struggles of listening to their teachers, the teacher can simply used the computer to send
                          or receive comments from their students and help them accordingly. With this technology, students will be in position to save and reuse
                          electronic lessons anytime.Digitized classrooms will have high quality 3D visualization,audio systems which will provide the opportunity
                          for an interactive presentation. 
(3)Electronic Paper screens: Future technology will replace the normal papers we use in the classrooms to take notes with an electronic paper screen.This Electronic
                             paper has the same characteristics of a normal paper such as being thin being flexible,and being lightweight.It uses very little energy
                             and it displays images very well making learning simple and interesting.Some of these electronic papers can feature three or more layers
                             in different colors,so you can decide to switch to a colored version or use the normal plain white paper.An electronic paper has a memory
                             which can store all images,so you will not need power to retrieve them.Students and teachers can use these electronic papers in the class
                             room for visual illustrations.


Smartphones, mobile communication devices reminiscent of the “tricorder” in Star Trek, are examples of almost evenly distributed and democratized products. Smartphones
allow the common man to search for information on the go without a desktop or PC.Furthermore, with Google Glass, estimated to be available next year,people can“summon 
at will” the power of technology. Able to take in surrounding images and sense voice and gestures, Google Glass allows users to access the Web more seamlessly and 
conveniently.Robots and cyborgs are transforming civilization on a more personal level. Self-driven cars,commonly seen in the California Bay Area, have dispelled the
notion that robots are self-contained entities.These cars can draw upon Google Maps through the Internet to locate construction zones and process the information to 
find a detour.Technology has even supplanted components of the human body for the physically disabled.Oscar Pistorius,an Olympic runner,overcame his childhood through 
bionic legs. Stephen Hawking, a physicist, uses an electronic voice synthesizer to overcome ALS and communicate.Military drones also havethe potential to save lives,
if properly adapted to civilian life, such as surveying accidents and rescuing burn victims.Valz predicts that, in the future,robotics and society will grow even more
integrated. Technology will be a means of empowerment for humans.
Technological advancements can even have a philosophical dimension.Valv argues that we can achieve a “perfect (asymptotic) recall” of the past, present, and future
through technology. Reminiscent of the film, Being John Malkovich, 3D videos virtually allow individuals to climb into the present experience of another person. 
Technology also allows for strong predictions of the future–the Google Map application can accurately anticipate building traffic and advise an earlier departure.
Technology is also a means for furthering knowledge in academia, especially in physics and biology. Previously, the paradigm for maintaining all the prolific data 
generated by society was to produce more supercomputers. It is more feasible, though, to achieve efficient organization by parsing complex data sets. If we can retain
all the data from, for instance, astronomy studies, we can go back later in time and run infinite sets of hypotheses and test specific variables on these data sets to
generate new postulates and models.Biologists may also find computational systems of great use.Given enough data about eukaryotic genome, we may, in the future, find 
some significance within the portions of DNA strands currently considered to be “junk” DNA.